Add production image support (#7832)
mistercrunch/Airflow: IMAGES.rst

 .. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
distributed with this work for additional information
regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
"License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

 ..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

 .. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
software distributed under the License is distributed on an
"AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations

> under the License.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  .. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

 ..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

 .. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.
```

.. contents:: :local:

Airflow docker images
=====================

Airflow has two images (build from Dockerfiles):

* CI image (Dockerfile.ci) - used for running tests and local development

> * Production image (Dockerfile) - used to run production-ready Airlfow installations

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Production image (Dockerfile) - used to run production-ready Airflow installations
```

Image naming conventions
========================

The images are named as follows:

``apache/airflow:<BRANCH_OR_TAG>-python<PYTHON_MAJOR_MINOR_VERSION>[-ci][-manifest]``

where:

> * BRANCH_OR_TAG - branch or tag used when creating the image. Examples: master, v1-10-test, 1.10.10

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ``BRANCH_OR_TAG`` - branch or tag used when creating the image. Examples: master, v1-10-test, 1.10.10
```

Reviewer 3: I agree with @kaxil change

Author: Ahh, missed that one :). Feel free to PR :)

  The ``master`` and ``v1-10-test`` labels are built from branches so they change over time. the 1.10.* and in
  the future ``2.*`` labels are build from git tags and they are "fixed" once built.

> * PYTHON_MAJOR_MINOR_VERSION - version of python used to build the image. Examples: 3.5, 3.7

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ``PYTHON_MAJOR_MINOR_VERSION`` - version of python used to build the image. Examples: 3.5, 3.7
```

You can build production image using this command:

.. code-block::

  ./breeze build-image --production-image

By adding ``--python <PYTHON_MAJOR_MINOR_VERSION>`` parameter you can build the
image version for the chosen python version.

The images are build with default extras - different extras for CI and production image and you
can change the extras via the ``--extras`` parameters. You can see default extras used via
``./breeze flags``.

For example if you want to build python 3.7 version of production image with
"all" extras installed you should run this command:

.. code-block::

  ./breeze build-image --python 3.7 --extras "all" --production-image

The command that builds the CI image are optimized to minimize the time needed to rebuild the image when
the source code of Airflow evolves. This means that if you already have the image locally downloaded and
built, the scripts will determine whether the rebuild is needed in the first place. Then the scripts will
make sure that minimal number of steps are executed to rebuild parts of the image (for example,
PIP dependencies) and will give you an image consistent with the one used during Continuous Integration.

> The command that build the production image are optimised for size of the image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The command that builds the production image is optimised for the size of the image.
```

> In Breeze by default the images with are built using local sources of Apache Airflow. However

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Breeze by default, the images are built using local sources of Apache Airflow. However
```

* ARG AIRFLOW_VERSION="2.0.0.dev0" - version of Airflow
* ARG PYTHON_MAJOR_MINOR_VERSION="3.6" - major/minor version of Python (should match base image)
* ARG DEPENDENCIES_EPOCH_NUMBER="2" - increasing this number will reinstall all apt dependencies
* ARG KUBECTL_VERSION="v1.15.3" - version of kubectl installed
* ARG KIND_VERSION="v0.6.1" - version of kind installed
* ARG PIP_NO_CACHE_DIR="true" - if true, then no pip cache will be stored
* ARG PIP_VERSION="19.0.2" - version of PIP to use
* ARG HOME=/root - Home directory of the root user (CI image has root user as default)
* ARG AIRFLOW_HOME=/root/airflow - Airflow's HOME (that's where logs and sqlite databases are stored)
* ARG AIRFLOW_SOURCES=/opt/airflow - Mounted sources of Airflow
* ARG PIP_DEPENDENCIES_EPOCH_NUMBER="3" - increasing that number will reinstall all PIP dependencies
* ARG CASS_DRIVER_NO_CYTHON="1" - if set to 1 no CYTHON compilation is done for cassandra driver (much faster)
* ARG AIRFLOW_CONTAINER_CI_OPTIMISED_BUILD="true" if set then PIP dependencies are installed from repo first
      before they are reinstalled from local sources. This allows for incremental faster builds when

>       requirements change

Reviewer: ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/8811558/78026294-48423600-7353-11ea-9d09-788c86e8a000.png)

This looks weird. Maybe use backticks to wrap the args

Author: I will convert to tables. I was just lazy  :)

Reviewer 4: Here is table. Hope it helps
```
Environment variable | Default value | Description
--|--|--
``PYTHON_BASE_IMAGE`` | ``python:3.6-slim-buster`` | Base python image
``AIRFLOW_VERSION`` | ``2.0.0.dev0`` | version of Airflow
``PYTHON_MAJOR_MINOR_VERSION`` | ``3.6`` | major/minor version of Python (should match base image)
``DEPENDENCIES_EPOCH_NUMBER`` | ``2`` | increasing this number will reinstall all apt dependencies
``KUBECTL_VERSION`` | ``v1.15.3`` | version of kubectl installed
``KIND_VERSION`` | ``v0.6.1`` | version of kind installed
``PIP_NO_CACHE_DIR`` | ``true`` | if true, then no pip cache will be stored
``PIP_VERSION`` | ``19.0.2`` | version of PIP to use
``HOME`` | ``/root`` | Home directory of the root user (CI image has root user as default)
``AIRFLOW_HOME`` | ``/root/airflow`` | Airflow's HOME (that's where logs and sqlite databases are stored)
``AIRFLOW_SOURCES`` | ``/opt/airflow`` | Mounted sources of Airflow
``PIP_DEPENDENCIES_EPOCH_NUMBER`` | ``3`` | increasing that number will reinstall all PIP dependencies
``CASS_DRIVER_NO_CYTHON`` | ``1`` | if set to 1 no CYTHON compilation is done for cassandra driver (much faster)
``AIRFLOW_CONTAINER_CI_OPTIMISED_BUILD`` | ``true`` if set then PIP dependencies are installed from repo first before they are reinstalled from local sources. This allows for incremental faster builds when requirements change
``AIRFLOW_REPO`` | ``apache/airflow`` | the repository from which PIP dependencies are installed (CI optimised)
``AIRFLOW_BRANCH`` | ``master`` | the branch from which PIP dependencies are installed (CI optimised)
``AIRFLOW_CI_BUILD_EPOCH`` | ``1`` | increasing this value will reinstall PIP dependencies from the repository from scratch
``AIRFLOW_EXTRAS`` | ``all`` | extras to install
``ADDITIONAL_PYTHON_DEPS`` | ```` | additional python dependencies to install
```

Author: Oh! Fantastic! Thanks! I was just about to convert them :)

Author: It's markdown not RST but I can convert them easily :)

Reviewer 4: Sorry. I can update the comment in a bit.

Reviewer 4: ```
+------------------------------------------+----------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Environment variable                     | Default value              | Description                                                                            |
+==========================================+============================+========================================================================================+
| ``PYTHON_BASE_IMAGE``                    | ``python:3.6-slim-buster`` | Base python image                                                                      |
+------------------------------------------+----------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``AIRFLOW_VERSION``                      | ``2.0.0.dev0``             | version of Airflow                                                                     |
+------------------------------------------+----------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``PYTHON_MAJOR_MINOR_VERSION``           | ``3.6``                    | major/minor version of Python (should match base image)                                |
+------------------------------------------+----------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``DEPENDENCIES_EPOCH_NUMBER``            | ``2``                      | increasing this number will reinstall all apt dependencies                             |
+------------------------------------------+----------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``KUBECTL_VERSION``                      | ``v1.15.3``                | version of kubectl installed                                                           |
+------------------------------------------+----------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``KIND_VERSION``                         | ``v0.6.1``                 | version of kind installed                                                              |
+------------------------------------------+----------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``PIP_NO_CACHE_DIR``                     | ``true``                   | if true, then no pip cache will be stored                                              |
+------------------------------------------+----------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``PIP_VERSION``                          | ``19.0.2``                 | version of PIP to use                                                                  |
+------------------------------------------+----------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``HOME``                                 | ``/root``                  | Home directory of the root user (CI image has root user as default)                    |
+------------------------------------------+----------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``AIRFLOW_HOME``                         | ``/root/airflow``          | Airflow's HOME (that's where logs and sqlite databases are stored)                     |
+------------------------------------------+----------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``AIRFLOW_SOURCES``                      | ``/opt/airflow``           | Mounted sources of Airflow                                                             |
+------------------------------------------+----------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``PIP_DEPENDENCIES_EPOCH_NUMBER``        | ``3``                      | increasing that number will reinstall all PIP dependencies                             |
+------------------------------------------+----------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``CASS_DRIVER_NO_CYTHON``                | ``1``                      | if set to 1 no CYTHON compilation is done for cassandra driver (much faster)           |
+------------------------------------------+----------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``AIRFLOW_CONTAINER_CI_OPTIMISED_BUILD`` | ``true``                   | if set then PIP dependencies are installed from repo first before they are reinstalled |
|                                          |                            | from local sources. This allows for incremental faster builds when requirements change |
+------------------------------------------+----------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``AIRFLOW_REPO``                         | ``apache/airflow``         | the repository from which PIP dependencies are installed (CI optimised)                |
+------------------------------------------+----------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``AIRFLOW_BRANCH``                       | ``master``                 | the branch from which PIP dependencies are installed (CI optimised)                    |
+------------------------------------------+----------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``AIRFLOW_CI_BUILD_EPOCH``               | ``1``                      | increasing this value will reinstall PIP dependencies from the repository from scratch |
+------------------------------------------+----------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``AIRFLOW_EXTRAS``                       | ``all``                    | extras to install                                                                      |
+------------------------------------------+----------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``ADDITIONAL_PYTHON_DEPS``               |                            | additional python dependencies to install                                              |
+------------------------------------------+----------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
```

* ARG AIRFLOW_REPO=apache/airflow - the repository from which PIP dependencies are installed (CI optimised)
* ARG AIRFLOW_BRANCH=master - the branch from which PIP dependencies are installed (CI optimised)
* ARG AIRFLOW_CI_BUILD_EPOCH="1" - increasing this value will reinstall PIP dependencies from the repository
      from scratch
* ARG AIRFLOW_EXTRAS="all" - extras to install
* ARG ADDITIONAL_PYTHON_DEPS="" - additional python dependencies to install

Here are some examples of how CI images can built manually. CI is always built from local sources.

This builds the CI image in version 3.7 with default extras ("all").

.. code-block::

  docker build . -f Dockerfile.ci --build-arg PYTHON_BASE_IMAGE="python:3.7-slim-buster" \
    --build-arg PYTHON_MAJOR_MINOR_VERSION=3.7

This builds the CI image in version 3.7 with default extras ("all").

.. code-block::

  docker build . -f Dockerfile.ci --build-arg PYTHON_BASE_IMAGE="python:3.7-slim-buster" \
    --build-arg PYTHON_MAJOR_MINOR_VERSION=3.7

This builds the CI image in version 3.7 with just  extras ("all").

.. code-block::

  docker build . -f Dockerfile.ci --build-arg PYTHON_BASE_IMAGE="python:3.7-slim-buster" \

>     --build-arg PYTHON_MAJOR_MINOR_VERSION=3.7

Reviewer 2: WIP? 3x the same code block @potiuk

Production images
.................

> The following arguments can be used for CI images:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following arguments can be used for Production images:
```

* ARG AIRFLOW_VERSION="2.0.0.dev0" - version of Airflow
* ARG AIRFLOW_ORG="apache" - Github organisation from which Airflow is installed (when installed from repo)
* ARG AIRFLOW_REPO="airflow" - Github repository from which Airflow is installed (when installed from repo)
* ARG AIRFLOW_GIT_REFERENCE="master" - reference (branch or tag) from Github repository from which
    Airflow is installed (when installed from repo)
* ARG REQUIREMENTS_GIT_REFERENCE="master" - reference (branch or tag) from Github repository from which
    requirements are downloaded for constraints (when installed from repo).
* ARG WWW_FOLDER="www" - folder where www pages are generated - it should be set to www_rbac in case
    of 1.10 image builds.
* ARG AIRFLOW_EXTRAS=(see Dockerfile)  Default extras with which airflow is installed
* ARG AIRFLOW_HOME=/opt/airflow - Airflow's HOME (that's where logs and sqlite databases are stored)
* ARG AIRFLOW_UID="50000" - Airflow user UID
* ARG AIRFLOW_GID="50000" - Airflow group GID
* ARG PIP_VERSION="19.0.2" - version of PIP to use
* ARG CASS_DRIVER_BUILD_CONCURRENCY="8" - Number of processors to use for cassandra PIP install (speeds up

>        installing in case cassandra extra is used).

Reviewer: ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/8811558/78026361-6dcf3f80-7353-11ea-82b2-ace7c5795970.png)

Same here

Reviewer 4: ```
Argument | Example value | Description
-- | -- | --
``PYTHON_BASE_IMAGE`` | ``python:3.6-slim-buster`` | Base python image
``PYTHON_MAJOR_MINOR_VERSION`` | ``3.6`` | major/minor version of Python (should match base image)
``AIRFLOW_VERSION`` | ``2.0.0.dev0`` | version of Airflow
``AIRFLOW_ORG`` | ``apache`` | Github organisation from which Airflow is installed (when installed from repo)
``AIRFLOW_REPO`` | ``airflow`` | Github repository from which Airflow is installed (when installed from repo)
``AIRFLOW_GIT_REFERENCE`` | ``master`` | reference (branch or tag) from Github repository from which Airflow is installed (when installed from repo)
``REQUIREMENTS_GIT_REFERENCE`` | ``master`` | reference (branch or tag) from Github repository from which requirements are downloaded for constraints (when installed from repo).
``WWW_FOLDER`` | ``www`` - folder where www pages are generated | it should be set to www_rbac in case of 1.10 image builds.
``AIRFLOW_EXTRAS`` | (see Dockerfile) | Default extras with which airflow is installed
``AIRFLOW_HOME`` | ``/opt/airflow`` | Airflow's HOME (that's where logs and sqlite databases are stored)
``AIRFLOW_UID`` | ``50000`` | Airflow user UID
``AIRFLOW_GID`` | ``50000`` | Airflow group GID
``PIP_VERSION`` | ``19.0.2`` | version of PIP to use
``CASS_DRIVER_BUILD_CONCURRENCY`` | ``8`` | Number of processors to use for cassandra PIP install (speeds up installing in case cassandra extra is used).
```

Reviewer 4: ```
+-----------------------------------+------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Argument                          | Example value                                  | Description                                                                                                                         |
+-----------------------------------+------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``PYTHON_BASE_IMAGE``             | ``python:3.6-slim-buster``                     | Base python image                                                                                                                   |
+-----------------------------------+------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``PYTHON_MAJOR_MINOR_VERSION``    | ``3.6``                                        | major/minor version of Python (should match base image)                                                                             |
+-----------------------------------+------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``AIRFLOW_VERSION``               | ``2.0.0.dev0``                                 | version of Airflow                                                                                                                  |
+-----------------------------------+------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``AIRFLOW_ORG``                   | ``apache``                                     | Github organisation from which Airflow is installed (when installed from repo)                                                      |
+-----------------------------------+------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``AIRFLOW_REPO``                  | ``airflow``                                    | Github repository from which Airflow is installed (when installed from repo)                                                        |
+-----------------------------------+------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``AIRFLOW_GIT_REFERENCE``         | ``master``                                     | reference (branch or tag) from Github repository from which Airflow is installed (when installed from repo)                         |
+-----------------------------------+------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``REQUIREMENTS_GIT_REFERENCE``    | ``master``                                     | reference (branch or tag) from Github repository from which requirements are downloaded for constraints (when installed from repo). |
+-----------------------------------+------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``WWW_FOLDER``                    | ``www`` - folder where www pages are generated | it should be set to www_rbac in case of 1.10 image builds.                                                                          |
+-----------------------------------+------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``AIRFLOW_EXTRAS``                | (see Dockerfile)                               | Default extras with which airflow is installed                                                                                      |
+-----------------------------------+------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``AIRFLOW_HOME``                  | ``/opt/airflow``                               | Airflow's HOME (that's where logs and sqlite databases are stored)                                                                  |
+-----------------------------------+------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``AIRFLOW_UID``                   | ``50000``                                      | Airflow user UID                                                                                                                    |
+-----------------------------------+------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``AIRFLOW_GID``                   | ``50000``                                      | Airflow group GID                                                                                                                   |
+-----------------------------------+------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``PIP_VERSION``                   | ``19.0.2``                                     | version of PIP to use                                                                                                               |
+-----------------------------------+------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``CASS_DRIVER_BUILD_CONCURRENCY`` | ``8``                                          | Number of processors to use for cassandra PIP install (speeds up installing in case cassandra extra is used).                       |
+-----------------------------------+------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
```

Author: Thanks!

Those variables should be overwritten only if the production image is built from local sources
rather than from GitHub repository.

* COPY_SOURCE - should be set to "." if you the image is built from sources
* COPY_TARGET - should be set to a airflow source directory inside container if the image is built
  from sources
* AIRFLOW_SOURCES - should point to the same as COPY_TARGET in case production image is installed from
  the local sources rather than from Github repository. If left empty it points to sources from
  GitHub repository derived from AIRFLOW_ORG, AIRFLOW_REPO, AIRFLOW_GIT_REFERENCE
* CONSTRAINT_REQUIREMENTS should point to locally available requirements file if the image is built
  from sources. If left empty it will point to the right requirement file from GitHub repository
  derived from AIRFLOW_ORG, AIRFLOW_REPO, REQUIREMENTS_GIT_REFERENCE
* ENTRYPOINT_FILE - sources point to entrypoint.sh file when installing from sources if left empty
  it points to sources from GitHub repository derived from
  AIRFLOW_ORG, AIRFLOW_REPO, REQUIREMENTS_GIT_REFERENCE

> The below will production image in version 3.6 with default extras from master branch in Github:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The below will build production image in version 3.6 with default extras from master branch in Github:
```

requirements taken from v1-10-test branch in Github. Note that versions 1.10.9 and below
have no requirements so requirements should be taken from head of the v1-10-test branch. Once we
release 1.10.10 we can take them from the 1.10.10 tag.

.. code-block::

  docker build . --build-arg PYTHON_BASE_IMAGE="python:3.7-slim-buster" \
    --build-arg PYTHON_MAJOR_MINOR_VERSION=3.7 --build-arg AIRFLOW_GIT_REFERENCE=1.10.9 \
    --build-arg REQUIREMENTS_GIT_REFERENCE=v1-10-test --build-arg WWW_FOLDER="www_rbac"

The below will build the production image in version 3.7 with default extras from master branch in Github.

.. code-block::

  docker build . --build-arg PYTHON_BASE_IMAGE="python:3.7-slim-buster" \
    --build-arg PYTHON_MAJOR_MINOR_VERSION=3.7

The below will build the production image in version 3.6 with default extras from current sources.

.. code-block::

  docker build . --build-arg PYTHON_BASE_IMAGE="python:3.7-slim-buster" \
    --build-arg PYTHON_MAJOR_MINOR_VERSION=3.7 --build-arg COPY_SOURCE=. \
    --build-arg COPY_TARGET=/opt/airflow --build-arg AIRFLOW_SOURCES=/opt/airflow \

>     --build-arg CONSTRAINT_REQUIREMENTS=requirements/requirements-python3.7.txt" \

Reviewer 4: A starting double-quote fell out. I appreciate your work. Thank you.

Author: Thanks!

>     --build-arg CONSTRAINT_REQUIREMENTS=requirements/requirements-python3.7.txt" \

Author: ```suggestion
    --build-arg CONSTRAINT_REQUIREMENTS="requirements/requirements-python3.7.txt" \
```

    --build-arg ENTRYPOINT_FILE=entrypoint.sh

Image manifests
---------------

> Together with teh main images we also build an push image manifests. Those manifests are vey small images

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Together with the main images we also build a push image manifests. Those manifests are very small images
```

``apache/airflow:1.10.10-manifest``. Similarly ``apache/airflow:master-ci`` manifest is named
``apache/airflow:master-ci-manifest``.

Pulling the Latest Images
-------------------------

Sometimes the image needs to be rebuilt from scratch. This is required, for example,
when there is a security update of the Python version that all the images are based on and new version
of the image is pushed to the repository. In this case it is usually faster to pull the latest
images rather than rebuild them from scratch.

You can do it via the ``--force-pull-images`` flag to force pulling the latest images from the Docker Hub.

For production image:

.. code-block::

  ./breeze build-image --force-pull-images --production-image

For CI image Breeze automatically uses force pulling in case it determines that your image is very outdated,
however uou can also force it with the same flag.

.. code-block::

  ./breeze build-image --force-pull-images

Using the images
================

Both images have entrypoint set as dumb-init with entrypoint.sh script executed (in order to forward
signals). This entrypoint works as follows:

> * If AIRFLOW__CORE__SQL_ALCHEMY_CONN variable is passed to the container and it is either mysql or postgres

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If ``AIRFLOW__CORE__SQL_ALCHEMY_CONN`` variable is passed to the container and it is either mysql or postgres
```

Can you wrap all those args/env vars with backticks please

build from a released version of Airflow from Github, but by providing some extra arguments you can also
build it from local sources. This is particularly useful in CI environment where we are using the image
to run Kubernetes tests. See below for the list of arguments that should be provided to build
production image from the local sources.

Note! Breeze by default builds production image from local sources. You can change it's behaviour by
providing ``--install-airflow-version`` parameter, where you can specify the
tag/branch used to download Airflow package from in github repository. You can
also change the repository itself by adding --dockerhub-user and --dockerhub-repo flag values.

Manually building the images
----------------------------

You can build the default production image with standard ``docker build`` command but they will only build
default versions of the image and will not use the dockerhub versions of images as cache.

CI images
.........

The following arguments can be used for CI images:

+------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------+

> | Environment variable                     | Default value                            | Description                              |

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
| Build arg                     | Default value                            | Description                              |
```

Since these are controlled by `docker build --build-arg` aren't they?

Reviewer 5: Or `Argument` as you have it in the next block.

Author: Yep!

+------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------+
| ``AIRFLOW_EXTRAS``                       | ``all``                                  | extras to install                        |
+------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------+
| ``ADDITIONAL_PYTHON_DEPS``               | \```\`                                   | additional python dependencies to        |
|                                          |                                          | install                                  |
+------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------+

Here are some examples of how CI images can built manually. CI is always built from local sources.

This builds the CI image in version 3.7 with default extras ("all").

.. code-block::

  docker build . -f Dockerfile.ci --build-arg PYTHON_BASE_IMAGE="python:3.7-slim-buster" \
    --build-arg PYTHON_MAJOR_MINOR_VERSION=3.7

This builds the CI image in version 3.6 with "gcp" extra only.

.. code-block::

>   docker build . -f Dockerfile.ci --build-arg PYTHON_BASE_IMAGE="python:3.7-slim-buster" \

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  docker build . -f Dockerfile.ci --build-arg PYTHON_BASE_IMAGE="python:3.6-slim-buster" \
```

Author: Solved/.

+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+

This builds production image in version 3.6 with default extras from the local sources:

.. code-block::

  docker build .

This builds the production image in version 3.7 with default extras from 1.10.9 tag and
requirements taken from v1-10-test branch in Github.
Note that versions 1.10.9 and below have no requirements so requirements should be taken from head of
the v1-10-test branch. Once we release 1.10.10 we can take them from the 1.10.10 tag. Also
Note that in case of Airflow 1.10 we need to specify "www_rbac" instead of "wwww" for
WWW_FOLDER argument.

.. code-block::

  docker build . \
    --build-arg PYTHON_BASE_IMAGE="python:3.7-slim-buster" \
    --build-arg PYTHON_MAJOR_MINOR_VERSION=3.7 \
    --build-arg AIRFLOW_INSTALL_SOURCES="https://github.com/apache/airflow/archive/1.10.10.tar.gz#egg=apache-airflow" \
    --build-arg CONSTRAINT_REQUIREMENTS="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/apache/airflow/1.10.10/requirements/requirements-python3.7.txt" \
    --build-arg ENTRYPOINT_FILE="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/apache/airflow/1.10.10/entrypoint.sh" \

>     --build-arg SOURCES_FROM="Dockerfile" \
>     --build-arg SOURCES_TO="/Dockerfile" \

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    --build-arg AIRFLOW_SOURCES_FROM="Dockerfile" \
    --build-arg AIRFLOW_SOURCES_TO="/Dockerfile" \
```

Reviewer: Feel free to create a PR for these fixes :)

Author: Yeah. I am back. Happy to review those :)

Author: Fixed in new PR coming.

    --build-arg WWW_FOLDER="www_rbac"

This builds the production image in version 3.6 with default extras from current sources.

.. code-block::

>   docker build . --build-arg PYTHON_BASE_IMAGE="python:3.7-slim-buster" \
>     --build-arg PYTHON_MAJOR_MINOR_VERSION=3.7 --build-arg COPY_SOURCE=. \
>     --build-arg COPY_TARGET=/opt/airflow --build-arg AIRFLOW_SOURCES=/opt/airflow \
>     --build-arg CONSTRAINT_REQUIREMENTS=requirements/requirements-python3.7.txt" \
>     --build-arg ENTRYPOINT_FILE=entrypoint.sh \
>     --build-arg AIRFLOW_INSTALL_SOURCES="apache-airflow" \
>     --build-arg AIRFLOW_INSTALL_VERSION="==1.10.10" \
>     --build-arg CONSTRAINT_REQUIREMENTS="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/apache/airflow/1.10.10/requirements/requirements-python3.7.txt"
>     --build-arg ENTRYPOINT_FILE="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/apache/airflow/1.10.10/entrypoint.sh" \
>     --build-arg SOURCES_FROM="Dockerfile" \
>     --build-arg SOURCES_TO="/Dockerfile" \
>     --build-arg WWW_FOLDER="www_rbac"

Reviewer 2: There is sth. wrong.

```suggestion
  docker build . 
    --build-arg PYTHON_BASE_IMAGE="python:3.7-slim-buster" \
    --build-arg PYTHON_MAJOR_MINOR_VERSION=3.7 \
    --build-arg AIRFLOW_INSTALL_SOURCES="apache-airflow" \
    --build-arg AIRFLOW_INSTALL_VERSION="==1.10.10" \
    --build-arg CONSTRAINT_REQUIREMENTS=requirements/requirements-python3.7.txt" \
    --build-arg ENTRYPOINT_FILE=entrypoint.sh \
    --build-arg AIRFLOW_SOURCES_FROM="Dockerfile" \
    --build-arg AIRFLOW_SOURCES_TO="/Dockerfile" \
    --build-arg WWW_FOLDER="www_rbac"
```

Like this @potiuk ?

    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

.. contents:: :local:

Airflow docker images
=====================

Airflow has two images (build from Dockerfiles):

* CI image (Dockerfile.ci) - used for running tests and local development
* Production image (Dockerfile) - used to run production-ready Airflow installations

Image naming conventions
========================

The images are named as follows:

``apache/airflow:<BRANCH_OR_TAG>-python<PYTHON_MAJOR_MINOR_VERSION>[-ci][-manifest]``

where:

* BRANCH_OR_TAG - branch or tag used when creating the image. Examples: master, v1-10-test, 1.10.10
  The ``master`` and ``v1-10-test`` labels are built from branches so they change over time. the 1.10.* and in
  the future ``2.*`` labels are build from git tags and they are "fixed" once built.
* PYTHON_MAJOR_MINOR_VERSION - version of python used to build the image. Examples: 3.5, 3.7
* The ``-ci`` suffix is added for CI images
* The ``-manifest`` is added for manifest images (see below for explanation of manifest images)

Building docker images
======================

> The easiest way to build those images is to use `<BREEZE.rst>`_.

Reviewer 3: Should we add here the information that appears later on?
```
Note! Breeze by default builds production image from local sources. You can change it's behaviour by
 providing ``--install-airflow-version``
```

Author: Good point!

You can build the CI image using this command:

.. code-block::

  ./breeze build-image

You can build production image using this command:

.. code-block::

  ./breeze build-image --production-image

By adding ``--python <PYTHON_MAJOR_MINOR_VERSION>`` parameter you can build the

> image version for the chosen python version.

Reviewer 3: Are there any limitations for the version?

Author: This is the same parameter as used everywhere. It's limitations are shown in BREEZE.rst, `./breeze flags`  and autocomplete. tt's also verified when the value is not ok (and correct values are shown). I do not want to repeat it here again, especially that now we have one place that it is changed and Breeze documentation is generated from it.

For production image:

.. code-block::

  ./breeze build-image --force-pull-images --production-image

For CI image Breeze automatically uses force pulling in case it determines that your image is very outdated,
however uou can also force it with the same flag.

.. code-block::

  ./breeze build-image --force-pull-images

Using the images
================

Both images have entrypoint set as dumb-init with entrypoint.sh script executed (in order to forward
signals). This entrypoint works as follows:

* If ``AIRFLOW__CORE__SQL_ALCHEMY_CONN`` variable is passed to the container and it is either mysql or postgres
  SQL alchemy connection, then the connection is checked and the script waits until the database is reachable.
* If no ``AIRFLOW__CORE__SQL_ALCHEMY_CONN`` variable is set or if it is set to sqlite SQL alchemy connection
  then db reset is executed.
* If ``AIRFLOW__CELERY__BROKER_URL`` variable is passed and scheduler, worker of flower command is used then
  the connection is checked and the script waits until the Celery broker database is reachable.
* If ``DB_RESET`` is specified - the 'airflow db reset' is used.

* If no argument is specified - you are dropped in bash shell.

> * If there are any arguments they are passed to "airflow" command

Reviewer 3: A thought: should we add this or shorter info to docs? In this way, information about docker image will appear on Airflow website.

Author: I think more info and docs will come when we have helm chart. I see the Dockerfile as a starting point and it's the helm chart where we should see more use cases explained.
